README.md, before:

# DockGo 🐳

> **A lightweight, secure Docker update agent — single binary, no fuss.**

![DockGo dashboard showing container updates](screenshot.png)

## What is DockGo?

DockGo is a simple, single-binary application that monitors your Docker containers for updates. It focuses on visibility and control rather than automatic unattended updates and it provides:
1.  A **Web Dashboard** to see container status and available updates at a glance.
2.  A **CLI** for scripting and manual checks.
3.  **Smart Updates** that handle standard containers, private registries, and Docker Compose services.

## Why DockGo?

Most Docker update tools (like Watchtower or Ouroboros) are great, but can be:
*   **Heavy**: Running complex logical loops or requiring root.
*   **Insecure**: Often demanding full root access to the socket without dropping privileges or providing authentication.
*   **Opaque**: Updating things silently without a clear UI to see *what* is happening.

**DockGo is different:**
*   **Security-focused by default**: Runs as a non-root user (`dockgo`).
*   **Transparent**: You decide when to update (via UI or CLI), or automate it with scripts.
*   **Lightweight**: Written in Go, typically very low memory footprint (~10–30MB).

---

## Quick Start

The fastest way to run DockGo is via Docker:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name dockgo \
  -p 3131:3131 \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  -e LOG_LEVEL=info \
  dockgo/dockgo
```

Visit **http://localhost:3131** to see your dashboard!

---

## Security Model

DockGo takes security seriously.

1.  **Non-Root Execution**: Inside the container, the process runs as the `dockgo` user (UID 1000), not root.
2.  **Socket Permissions**: The entrypoint script creates a `docker` group matching the host's socket GID, allowing the `dockgo` user to talk to the engine without being root.
3.  **Authentication**:
    *   **User Login (Recommended)**: Set `AUTH_USERNAME` and `AUTH_PASSWORD` to enable a secure login flow with HttpOnly cookies.
    *   **Legacy Token**: Set `API_TOKEN` for simple script integrations.
    *   **CORS**: Disabled by default. Only enabled if you specifically set `CORS_ORIGIN`.
4.  **Log Redaction**: Sensitive errors and login failures are redacted in logs.

> [!CAUTION]
> **CRITICAL SECURITY WARNING: Docker Socket Exposure**
>
> Mounting `/var/run/docker.sock` explicitly grants **full root-level access** to your host machine. This is an unavoidable requirement for any tool that manages Docker containers, but it comes with severe security implications.
>
> **You MUST:**
> 1. **Never expose DockGo publicly to the internet** without robust authentication.
> 2. **Use Network Isolation:** Run DockGo on a trusted, private local network.
> 3. **Implement a Reverse Proxy:** If you must expose it, place it behind a secure reverse proxy (like Nginx, Traefik, or Caddy) equipped with SSL/TLS and preferably external Single Sign-On (SSO) or robust reverse-proxy-level authentication, *in addition* to DockGo's built-in `AUTH_USERNAME`/`AUTH_PASSWORD`.
>
> Failing to secure this endpoint means giving anyone on the internet immediate root access to your entire server.

---

## Features

*   **Web Dashboard**: Real-time status, "Update" buttons, and progress tracking.
*   **Smart Discovery**:
    *   Checks standard Docker Hub images.
    *   Supports **Private Registries** (using your host's credentials).
    *   Works for most standard **Docker Compose** setups.
*   **Apprise Notifications**: Sends instant automated alerts for newly discovered updates and container upgrade status to over 100+ supported services (Discord, Slack, Telegram, Gotify, etc.).
*   **Autonomous Scheduler**: Periodically checks for container updates in the background without needing the UI open (default: 24h).
*   **Safe Mode**: Use `--safe` (or Safe Mode in UI if implemented) to pull images without restarting running containers.
*   **Network Preservation**: Keeps static IPs and MAC addresses when recreating containers.
*   **Registry Caching**: Caches registry digests for 10 minutes to prevent rate-limiting.
*   **Log Level Control**: adjustable verbosity via `LOG_LEVEL`.

---

## Configuration

Configure DockGo using environment variables:

| Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `PORT` | Web server port | `3131` |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | Log verbosity (`debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`) | `info` |
| `AUTH_USERNAME` | Username for web login | *(empty)* |
| `AUTH_PASSWORD` | Password for web login | *(empty)* |
| `AUTH_SECRET` | Secret for signing session cookies | *(random)* |
| `AUTH_BCRYPT_COST` | Configurable bcrypt hashing cost (min 4, max 31) | `10` |
| `API_TOKEN` | Legacy token for API updates | *(empty)* |
| `CORS_ORIGIN` | Allowed Origin for CORS (e.g. `https://mydomain.com`) | *(disabled)* |
| `APPRISE_URL` | Apprise notification endpoint (e.g., `discord://...`) | *(empty)* |
| `APPRISE_QUEUE_SIZE` | Buffer size for outbound notification events | `200` |
| `SCAN_INTERVAL` | Background update polling schedule (`s`, `m`, `h`) | `24h` |

---

## Documentation

For deeper dives into specific integrations and features, check out our [Documentation Folder](./documentation/):
*   [Apprise Integration Guide](./documentation/apprise.md)
*   [API Token Authentication](./documentation/api_token.md)
*   [GitHub Actions Release Flow](./documentation/github_actions.md)

**Example `docker-compose.yml`:**

```yaml
services:
  dockgo:
    image: dockgo/dockgo
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
    ports:
      - "3131:3131"
    environment:
      - LOG_LEVEL=info
      - AUTH_USERNAME=admin
      - AUTH_PASSWORD=secret
```

---

## CLI Usage

You can use the `dockgo` binary directly for scripting or manual checks.

```bash
# Check all containers
dockgo check

# Check with JSON output (great for scripts)
dockgo check -json

# Update a specific container
dockgo update -y my-container

# Update ALL containers
dockgo update -a

# Safe Mode: Pull only, don't restart running containers
dockgo update -safe -a

# Force Mode: Restart even if running
dockgo update -force -y my-container
```

```bash
# Typical workflow:
dockgo check
dockgo update -a
```

### Flags

*   `-y <name>`: Target specific container.
*   `-a`: Target all containers with updates.
*   `-json`: Output standard JSON.
*   `-stream`: Output SSE-compatible line-delimited JSON.
*   `-preserve-network`: Preserve network settings (IP/MAC) during recreation.

---

### Building from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dockgo.git
cd dockgo
go build -o dockgo ./cmd/dockgo
```

### Building for Windows


### Troubleshooting

#### Windows Connection Issues

If you see an error like `failed to connect to Docker`, ensure Docker Desktop is running. You may need to set the `DOCKER_HOST` environment variable if the default connection fails:

```powershell
$env:DOCKER_HOST = "npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine"
```

#### Docker Container "no such file or directory"

If the container crashes with `exec ./entrypoint.sh: no such file or directory`, it likely has Windows line endings (CRLF). Ensure `entrypoint.sh` uses Unix line endings (LF). The build process should handle this, but if you are mounting the file locally, you may need to convert it.

Commit message:

feat(auth): add bcrypt password hash support and CLI generator
Add support for pre-hashed bcrypt passwords via AUTH_PASSWORD_HASH
environment variable, providing a more secure alternative to plaintext
passwords for production deployments.

- Add `dockgo hash-password` CLI command to generate bcrypt hashes
- Update authentication logic to validate and use pre-hashed passwords
- Maintain backward compatibility with AUTH_PASSWORD for convenience
- Add warning when both hash and plaintext password are configured
- Update documentation and examples with new authentication options
- Add validation for bcrypt hash format at startup

README.md, after:

# DockGo 🐳

> **A lightweight, secure Docker update agent — single binary, no fuss.**

![DockGo dashboard showing container updates](screenshot.png)

## What is DockGo?

DockGo is a simple, single-binary application that monitors your Docker containers for updates. It focuses on visibility and control rather than automatic unattended updates and it provides:
1.  A **Web Dashboard** to see container status and available updates at a glance.
2.  A **CLI** for scripting and manual checks.
3.  **Smart Updates** that handle standard containers, private registries, and Docker Compose services.

## Why DockGo?

Most Docker update tools (like Watchtower or Ouroboros) are great, but can be:
*   **Heavy**: Running complex logical loops or requiring root.
*   **Insecure**: Often demanding full root access to the socket without dropping privileges or providing authentication.
*   **Opaque**: Updating things silently without a clear UI to see *what* is happening.

**DockGo is different:**
*   **Security-focused by default**: Runs as a non-root user (`dockgo`).
*   **Transparent**: You decide when to update (via UI or CLI), or automate it with scripts.
*   **Lightweight**: Written in Go, typically very low memory footprint (~10–30MB).

---

## Quick Start

The fastest way to run DockGo is via Docker:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name dockgo \
  -p 3131:3131 \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  -e LOG_LEVEL=info \
  dockgo/dockgo
```

Visit **http://localhost:3131** to see your dashboard!

---

## Security Model

DockGo takes security seriously.

1.  **Non-Root Execution**: Inside the container, the process runs as the `dockgo` user (UID 1000), not root.
2.  **Socket Permissions**: The entrypoint script creates a `docker` group matching the host's socket GID, allowing the `dockgo` user to talk to the engine without being root.
3.  **Authentication**:
    *   **User Login**: Set `AUTH_USERNAME` and map either `AUTH_PASSWORD_HASH` (recommended) or `AUTH_PASSWORD` (convenience/testing) to enable a secure login flow with HttpOnly cookies.
        *   *Generate hashes using the built-in CLI command, e.g., `dockgo hash-password secret`.*
    *   **Legacy Token**: Set `API_TOKEN` for simple script integrations.
    *   **CORS**: Disabled by default. Only enabled if you specifically set `CORS_ORIGIN`.
4.  **Log Redaction**: Sensitive errors and login failures are redacted in logs.

> [!CAUTION]
> **CRITICAL SECURITY WARNING: Docker Socket Exposure**
>
> Mounting `/var/run/docker.sock` explicitly grants **full root-level access** to your host machine. This is an unavoidable requirement for any tool that manages Docker containers, but it comes with severe security implications.
>
> **You MUST:**
> 1. **Never expose DockGo publicly to the internet** without robust authentication.
> 2. **Use Network Isolation:** Run DockGo on a trusted, private local network.
> 3. **Implement a Reverse Proxy:** If you must expose it, place it behind a secure reverse proxy (like Nginx, Traefik, or Caddy) equipped with SSL/TLS and preferably external Single Sign-On (SSO) or robust reverse-proxy-level authentication, *in addition* to DockGo's built-in authentication.
>
> Failing to secure this endpoint means giving anyone on the internet immediate root access to your entire server.

---

## Features

*   **Web Dashboard**: Real-time status, "Update" buttons, and progress tracking.
*   **Smart Discovery**:
    *   Checks standard Docker Hub images.
    *   Supports **Private Registries** (using your host's credentials).
    *   Works for most standard **Docker Compose** setups.
*   **Apprise Notifications**: Sends instant automated alerts for newly discovered updates and container upgrade status to over 100+ supported services (Discord, Slack, Telegram, Gotify, etc.).
*   **Autonomous Scheduler**: Periodically checks for container updates in the background without needing the UI open (default: 24h).
*   **Safe Mode**: Use `--safe` (or Safe Mode in UI if implemented) to pull images without restarting running containers.
*   **Network Preservation**: Keeps static IPs and MAC addresses when recreating containers.
*   **Registry Caching**: Caches registry digests for 10 minutes to prevent rate-limiting.
*   **Log Level Control**: adjustable verbosity via `LOG_LEVEL`.

---

## Configuration

Configure DockGo using environment variables:

| Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `PORT` | Web server port | `3131` |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | Log verbosity (`debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`) | `info` |
| `AUTH_USERNAME` | Username for web login | *(empty)* |
| `AUTH_PASSWORD_HASH`| Pre-hashed bcrypt string (Recommended for production) | *(empty)* |
| `AUTH_PASSWORD` | Plaintext password (Convenience/Testing) | *(empty)* |
| `AUTH_SECRET` | Secret for signing session cookies | *(random)* |
| `AUTH_BCRYPT_COST` | Configurable bcrypt hashing cost (min 4, max 31) | `10` |
| `API_TOKEN` | Legacy token for API updates | *(empty)* |
| `CORS_ORIGIN` | Allowed Origin for CORS (e.g. `https://mydomain.com`) | *(disabled)* |
| `APPRISE_URL` | Apprise notification endpoint (e.g., `discord://...`) | *(empty)* |
| `APPRISE_QUEUE_SIZE` | Buffer size for outbound notification events | `200` |
| `SCAN_INTERVAL` | Background update polling schedule (`s`, `m`, `h`) | `24h` |

---

## Documentation

For deeper dives into specific integrations and features, check out our [Documentation Folder](./documentation/):
*   [Apprise Integration Guide](./documentation/apprise.md)
*   [API Token Authentication](./documentation/api_token.md)
*   [GitHub Actions Release Flow](./documentation/github_actions.md)

**Example `docker-compose.yml`:**

```yaml
services:
  dockgo:
    image: dockgo/dockgo
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
    ports:
      - "3131:3131"
    environment:
      - LOG_LEVEL=info
      - AUTH_USERNAME=admin
      # Generate with: dockgo hash-password your_password
      - AUTH_PASSWORD_HASH=$$2a$$10$$YOUR_GENERATED_HASH_HERE
```

---

## CLI Usage

You can use the `dockgo` binary directly for scripting or manual checks.

```bash
# Check all containers
dockgo check

# Check with JSON output (great for scripts)
dockgo check -json

# Generate a password hash for the dashboard server configuration
dockgo hash-password supersecretpassword
dockgo check -json

# Update a specific container
dockgo update -y my-container

# Update ALL containers
dockgo update -a

# Safe Mode: Pull only, don't restart running containers
dockgo update -safe -a

# Force Mode: Restart even if running
dockgo update -force -y my-container
```

```bash
# Typical workflow:
dockgo check
dockgo update -a
```

### Flags

*   `-y <name>`: Target specific container.
*   `-a`: Target all containers with updates.
*   `-json`: Output standard JSON.
*   `-stream`: Output SSE-compatible line-delimited JSON.
*   `-preserve-network`: Preserve network settings (IP/MAC) during recreation.

---

### Building from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dockgo.git
cd dockgo
go build -o dockgo ./cmd/dockgo
```

### Building for Windows


### Troubleshooting

#### Windows Connection Issues

If you see an error like `failed to connect to Docker`, ensure Docker Desktop is running. You may need to set the `DOCKER_HOST` environment variable if the default connection fails:

```powershell
$env:DOCKER_HOST = "npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine"
```

#### Docker Container "no such file or directory"

If the container crashes with `exec ./entrypoint.sh: no such file or directory`, it likely has Windows line endings (CRLF). Ensure `entrypoint.sh` uses Unix line endings (LF). The build process should handle this, but if you are mounting the file locally, you may need to convert it.
